>>SEAN STONE: The shadow
government, the Nazis,
and the Blond Ghost--
let's enter the Buzzsaw.
Welcome to Buzzsaw where we
cut through the mainstream
narrative to explore
the hidden truths.
I'm your host Sean
Stone, and with me today
is Daniel Sheehan,
whose law career has
covered some of the most
important cases of our time.
He's a Harvard Law graduate, who
has been involved with cases,
including the Pentagon
Papers, the Wounded Knee
occupation, the Watergate
burglary, the Karen Silkwood
case but today, we'll be
focusing on the Enterprise.
So I want to start by
asking you-- tell me
about what the Enterprise was
because many people may have
heard of it in regards to Oliver
North's arming of the Contras
in 1980s and the
Iran-Contra scandal
and some people know about
the cocaine side of things.
But what was the Enterprise?
>>DANIEL SHEEHAN: The Enterprise
was an ostensibly private, off
the shelf, standalone,
self-financing covert
operations enterprise.
It was created by a man by the
name of Theodore G. Shackley.
Theodore G. Shackley was the
ADDO, the Associate Deputy
Director for
Operations of the CIA
in charge of all
covert operations
worldwide under
George H. W. Bush,
when Bush was the
director of the CIA,
appointed by Gerald
Ford, when Ford came in
after Nixon resigned in 1974.
And Gerald Ford came in and
he selected George H. W. Bush
to be the director of the
CIA right in the midst of all
the major Senate special select
intelligence committee hearings
investigating the covert
activities of the CIA
under Frank Church.
And when Bush came in, he
hand-picked this fellow,
Theodore Shackley, to come in.
Now, since he was in charge of
covert operations for the CIA,
he was not a household name.
He was not someone
that people knew about.
And where he had
come from, prior
to becoming the director of
covert operations for the CIA,
he had been the Director of
Operations in Southeast Asia.
And prior to that, he
had been the Director
of Operations in the
Western Hemisphere,
choreographing the
overthrow of Allende
in Chile, the rise
of the fascists
into power in Argentina,
the whole rise of all
those fascist regimes all
through Latin America that
became deeply involved
in the cocaine smuggling.
But it turns out, that part
of his initial incarnation
was that he had been the
CIA Station Chief in Saigon
during the Vietnam War.
He is the one that set up the
connection between the opium
trafficking in southeast Asia
with a major opium warlord
called Vang Pao in Laos and
helping to secretly fund
a massive political
assassination program known
as the Phoenix Project.
And they assassinated
anywhere from 20,000
non-combatant civilians,
if you accept the number
that Richard Helms gave
to the Church Committee.
Many people argue
that they assassinated
closer to 100,000 non-combatant
civilians, town mayors, city
clerks, school teachers,
anybody that they thought
might be sympathetic to what
they viewed as the North
Vietnamese agenda.
And so Shackley-- but
Shackley, his real deep history
is the fact that
Theodore Shackley
as a young
German-American English
speaker and German and Polish,
went into World War II.
He as an American,
a young American.
His parents came from
Germany and Poland.
And he went into the United
States Army in World War II
and was assigned to the 101st
counter-intelligence corps.
And at the very end of World War
II in Europe, in May of 1945,
the Commander of the Third
Reich's anti-Soviet Union
and anti-Eastern
Bloc intelligence,
a fellow named Major General
Reinhard Gehlen turned himself
into the 101st
counter-intelligence corps
and said, you know,
I'm Reinhard Gehlen.
I've run the Third Reich's
anti-Soviet intelligence
for the entire duration
of the Third Reich.
I'm turning myself into you.
I'd like to have you enter
into an agreement with me
to let me head up German, West
German intelligence at the end
of World War II in exchange for
which I want you to release,
take off the Nuremberg war
crimes list myself and my 100
top men.
And then I will run the
anti-Soviet intelligence
for the Western powers
after World War II.
And Theodore Shackley,
this young fellow
in the 101st
counter-intelligence corps
was assigned to be his
German-American translator.
And so throughout those
entire negotiations
that went on in May of
1945 over in Germany,
Shackley became closer
and closer to him,
doing the translating.
And then Reinhard
Gehlen, when they
realized what the asset
was that they had,
the OSS realized
what they had, they
shipped him to Fort Hunt
outside of Washington, DC.
And he spent three weeks
there with Theodore Shackley
being his German-American
translator,
negotiating with the OSS and
the intelligence community
of the United States as to
what the conditions were
under which he was
going to now run
anti-Soviet intelligence for
the Western powers, which
he did for 26 years.
>>SEAN: So Shackley
was basically,
at that point, initiated
into the deep state,
as it's been termed.
It's basically the original
CIA guys, the guys like Dulles,
right, and people around
the old OSS, who formulated
the beginnings of the CIA.
>>SHEEHAN: That's right.
>>SEAN: Did Shackley
intersect at all
with the peoples that have been
associated with the Kennedy
assassination, for example?
>>SHEEHAN: Oh, yes, because
one of the other incarnations
of Theodore Shackley
is that in 1961,
right after the Bay of Pigs
fiasco in April of 1961,
when the people in
charge of the Bay of Pigs
were removed by John
Kennedy, the CIA
brought in Theodore
Shackley, out of Germany,
where he was in Berlin
under Reinhard Gehlen,
where he had been
ever since 1947.
And brought him in to become
the Miami Station Chief.
And he ran the Miami station
and a covert operation
called JMWAVE that was
the covert operation
to try to overthrow Castro.
And even though
President Kennedy
promised Nikita Khrushchev
after the Bay of Pigs fiasco
that Kennedy was going to stop
any further covert operations
against Cuba, it wasn't true.
Kennedy was just flat lying
to Khrushchev at the time.
And so they had operation
JMWAVE, this Operation
Mongoose, they called
it, going in and trying
to burn sugar fields and blow
up bridges and poison crops
and poison sugar
shipments, actually,
that were going to Russia.
All of this activity
was going on
and Theodore Shackley
ran that whole operation.
And it turns out, that just
prior to Kennedy coming in
as President, elected
in November of 1960,
turns out that just
prior to that time,
the Eisenhower/Nixon
administration was in charge.
They had set up the
original covert operation
against Cuba as
of January of 1959
when Batista, the
dictator, was overthrown
by Fidel Castro and Raul Castro
and Che Guevara and the others.
And what happened is
Richard Nixon, who
was chairing at
that time, a thing
called the 5412 Committee.
It was the subcommittee of
the National Security Council
that was in charge
of covert operations
that were being promoted under
section 5414 of the National
Security Act of 1947, that
they viewed as authorizing them
to engage in covert operations.
So Nixon chaired that operation,
all the way from the creation.
Well, he came in in
1952 with Eisenhower,
all the way through to 1960.
And what happened
is, in June of 1960,
when as soon as Nixon
realized that he
was going to be the new nominee
for the Republican presidency,
he contacted Howard
Hughes and Howard
Hughes had been functioning
as a deep cover asset
to the National Security
Council for covert operations.
He was running a company
called the Summa Corporation
and they built the
Glomar Explorer
and a number of other very deep
and dark secret operations.
>>SEAN: Well, he was tied to
the military industrial complex
from World War II.
>>SHEEHAN: That's right.
>>SEAN: He was, obviously,
building a lot of the planes
and crafts for the war.
>>SHEEHAN: The C-5 cargo,
the big Spruce Goose.
>>SEAN: So he's tied to the
national security state.
>>SHEEHAN: That's right.
So when he went into seclusion
and everybody stopped
seeing him in public,
running around Hollywood,
and doing movies and all
that, he went into seclusion,
running the Summa Corporation
for the National Security
Council.
And because of that, he
had this relationship
with Richard Nixon, who's
chairing the 5412 committee.
So as soon as Richard
Nixon realized
he was going to be the new
nominee for the Republican
Party, he contacted
Howard Hughes by safe fall
from the 1512
committee and asked
Hughes to set up an
assassination team
to assassinate Fidel
Castro and Raul Castro
and Che Guevara and these
five other commandantes.
And Howard Hughes
assigned that job
to a young lawyer on his staff
by the name of Robert Maheu.
And Robert Maheu was based in
Las Vegas, where Hughes was,
staying there at the
hotel in the penthouse.
Bob Maheu reached out
to Johnny Roselli--
>>SEAN: The mafia.
>>SHEEHAN: Who was the bag
man in Vegas for Sam Giancana.
>>SEAN: The
Chicago-based mobster.
>>SHEEHAN: Out of
Chicago, right?
And so, when Maheu approached
Johnny Roselli and said,
look it, Richard
Nixon who's going
to now be the new
President-- because everybody
assumed he was going
to win the presidency.
That he'd been in this
catbird seat for eight
years and this young
senator from Massachusetts,
whose father bought him his
positions, as they viewed it,
wasn't going to win.
So they all moved in behind
him and said, look it,
Nixon wants to have
this assassination
deal put together.
You guys-- referring
to the mafia
that Roselli was part of-- have
your own reasons for wanting
to get rid of Castro.
He shut down all
of your casinos.
Shut down all of your
houses of prostitution.
Most importantly, shut down
the heroin smuggling operation
that was coming in through
Cuba out of the Southeast Asian
triangle.
That was all set up at
the end of World War II.
>>SEAN: Well, sure
the French connection.
>>SHEEHAN: That's right, the
whole Corsican connection.
And that was coming into
Havana through a thing called
the SEA Supply Corporation,
S-E-A, Southeast Asian Supply
Corporation, run
by Paul Helliwell,
full-time Central Intelligence
Agency, dental plan CIA guy,
right?
He was there and he ran
that entire operation.
He was also legal counsel to
the National Bank of Miami
that was owned by Meyer Lansky,
the big mafia treasurer, right?
So that whole operation
was going on in Cuba
and that's what Fidel Castro
knocked into [? Acanceh ? ]
when he took over.
He threw all those
people out of there.
They all came up to Florida.
So Johnny Roselli is being told
by Robert Maheu, you guys have
got your own reasons for
wanting to get rid of Castro
but now Nixon, who's
going to be President
is asking you to do that.
Would you do that?
And so Johnny Roselli
said, well, I've
got to check with my principal.
So he goes back to Chicago
and to Sam Giancana.
Giancana says,
well, wait a second.
This is Santo Trafficante's
territory down there.
He's the head of
the mob in Havana.
Now, he's up in Tampa because
he fled in January '59
when Castro took over.
So we go down to meet with him.
They did.
They said-- I get all
of this information
from Trafficante directly.
As it turned out, I was
one of the three trial
lawyers in F. Lee Bailey's law
firm, criminal defense firm,
and it turns out, Trafficante
was one of our clients.
So he briefed us on all of this.
And so they set
up-- he goes down
and they have three meetings
at the Fontainebleau
Hotel in July of 1960, now.
This is when Nixon is still
Vice President under Eisenhower.
And they have these
three meetings
to talk about setting up
this assassination team
but Trafficante says,
as he said to us,
I didn't fall off no
melon wagon, he said.
He said, I wanted to make sure
that this was coming directly
from Nixon, not some brainstorm
of Howard Hughes or Robert
Mayhew.
So they sent a person
to another meeting
they had who was using
the nom de guerre Mr. Ed.
It was Sheffield Edwards who
was the Chief of Security
for the Central
Intelligence Agency
under Richard Nixon
and Eisenhower
and the CIA director Dulles.
Because Allen Dulles
had been brought
in during the Eisenhower/Nixon
administration
to be the head of the CIA.
And the critical thing
to understand-- we
can get to that later-- but the
critical thing to understand
is that the reason that
Allen Dulles was named
the Director of the
Central Intelligence Agency
is because he was legal counsel
for Brown Brothers Harriman.
And he was also--
>>SEAN: Which is George
Bush, Sr.'s father's bank.
>>SHEEHAN: George
Herbert Walker.
George Herbert
Walker was, in fact,
was the CEO of Brown
Brothers Harriman, OK?
>>SEAN: With
Prescott, his father.
>>SHEEHAN: And Prescott
Bush was his son-in-law.
>>SEAN: No, his
father was Prescott.
George H.W. Bush's father.
>>SHEEHAN: George
H.W. Bush's father.
But George Herbert Walker,
it was his son-in-law,
Prescott Bush was
his son-in-law.
So George Herbert
Walker in 1924,
ends up retiring as the head
of the Brown Brothers Harriman,
setting up the Union Bank of
New York, which then set up
the Bank of Commerce and
Trade up in the Netherlands.
Fritz Thyssen was
heading that up
and financed the construction of
the international headquarters
of the Third Reich in Berlin.
>>SEAN: Fritz Thyssen wrote the
famous book, "I Paid Hitler"
and said he backed him.
So basically what
we're looking at here
is the connection that people
have always said, well,
how do you connect the
mafia, the CIA, the bankers,
the President, how does
that all make sense?
Well, you just outlined exactly
how all these things intersect.
>>SHEEHAN: That's.
Right Through Brown Brothers
Harriman and Allen Dulles.
>>SEAN: Exactly and Dulles
being a founder of it,
as the godfather of it.
Now, they set up an
assassination team.
None of this is disputed.
They wanted to
get rid of Castro.
>>SHEEHAN: This has
now been revealed.
We found this out.
I found this out in May of 1973.
>>SEAN: Yeah, but
this is-- no, I'm
saying people
recognize that there
was assassination teams
trying to get rid of Castro,
the Bay of Pigs operation
failed and all of that.
But essentially, your
argument is the secret team
that was designed to initially
assassinate Castro was
ultimately turned on Kennedy.
>>SHEEHAN: That's right.
They turned.
They turned on Kennedy
and killed him in Dallas
in November 1963 and
covered the entire thing up.
And Shackley was critical
to that because he
was the CIA Station
Chief in Miami
and this operation, the S
Force-- they had a code name,
the S Force-- ran under his
control out of the Miami
station, out of JMWAVE.
And so that's the
key to understanding.
He was taken out
of there in 1965
by LBJ, was sent into
Laos, and then into Saigon.
>>SEAN: But so let's talk
about the notion of how
these operations,
these black ops
are run, oftentimes,
using the drug traffic.
Because the mafia connection
is all about the drugs, right?
Utilizing the--
>>SHEEHAN: And assassinations.
>>SEAN: The mafia tie in.
>>SEAN: OK, for assassinations.
>>SHEEHAN: Key, the
key linkage there.
>>SEAN: Exactly, but
obviously, the drug traffic
is integral to that.
So what Shackley was
doing in '65 to '73, when
he's in Vietnam,
in Southeast Asia--
>>SHEEHAN: Laos and Vietnam.
>>SEAN: He's basically
overseeing and making
sure that the heroin traffic
continues unimpeded and expands
right out of that region.
The US now gets more
flow of money from that.
And then that
money is ultimately
utilized for off the
books type of operations.
>>SHEEHAN: Initially
his operation,
Shackley's operation with
Vang Pao, that whole operation
was specifically
being used to fund
the Phoenix Program, this
massive assassination program.
And then they were taking
funds, extra funds from that
and moving them into a special
bank they created, the Nugan
Hand Bank over in Australia.
And Richard Secord and
a fellow of the name
of Carl Jenkins, who was
the liaison between Shackley
and Vang Pao in the CIA,
Secord and Carl Jenkins
would carry the money
in suitcases, cash,
over to the Nugan Hand Bank
and opened up that bank.
And that was the money--
part of that money
was used by Shackley in 1980
to come into the United States
and fund the campaign
against Frank Church,
Dick Clark in Iowa, Bayh, Birch
Bayh in Indiana and Cranston
in California and George
McGovern in South Dakota.
to kick them out of office.
>>SEAN: Because they had been
running the committee that
exposed all kinds of things like
MKULTRA and CIA assassination
programs.
>>SHEEHAN: They were viewed
as enemies of the CIA.
>>SEAN: But all of
a sudden, 1980s,
it's fascinating
because now we have
the secret team of characters,
like Shackley, like Bush,
who was an old CIA hand, right?
>>SHEEHAN: Yeah.
>>SEAN: And Secord
and others popping up
as part of this new enterprise.
>>SHEEHAN: Well, they
appeared to pop up.
They had been going on.
>>SEAN: I'm sorry,
not popping up.
>>SHEEHAN: They popped
into public view.
>>SEAN: They became
the establishment.
I'm sorry.
They were the
establishment but they
became the recognized
political infrastructure
of the 1980s for this
new drug trade, which
now, is the expansion of the
cocaine traffic out of South
America.
Now, why was that
integral for them?
Why do they need to expand into
this massive dumping of cocaine
into the streets of
the United States,
crack into the streets of
United States and whatnot?
>>SHEEHAN: Well, what it
was, is they had already
developed this template
at the end of World War
II of smuggling the heroin in
through the course of the mafia
into Havana to help, in
that particular case, fund
the Kuomintang.
That's what they were doing.
They were funding the
so-called Nationalist Chinese.
>>SEAN: Against Mao.
>>SHEEHAN: Against Mao, right.
And that was what
they were doing then.
>>SEAN: And that helps
establish Taiwan.
>>SHEEHAN: That's right.
That was how they did it.
So they had that template
and what happens,
when Shackley, who
knew all about,
was assigned first, to be the
Deputy Station Chief in Laos,
he set up a special
program with Vang Pao
to supplement that
entire flow of heroin
because it had been cut off
coming through Cuba, right?
So what he did, is he went
back in and reinstigated
that entire operation with the
opium trafficking coming in
and so he was doing all of that.
So when he ended up being put
in charge of the Miami station
before, he knew
enough how to do this.
And so what he was doing,
when he came back from Saigon,
he got put in charge of all
Western Hemisphere operations.
So what he did is remove all
of the CIA Station Chiefs
in the Western Hemisphere and
put in all of his own men.
And the Mexico City station
was critical to this operation
in Latin America because it
was contiguous, basically,
to the United States and they
could move guys in and out
really easily out
of Mexico City.
>>SEAN: You can move-- you can
traffic drugs through there
and also financing banks.
I mean, we've seen
Mexico being taken over
by the American banks.
Citibank is, if not the
biggest, one of the biggest
banks in Mexico now.
>>SHEEHAN: So it
became a critical base
for this operation.
And inside the Security Division
of the Mexican national oil
company called Pemex, there
was the security division,
that housed the
assassination operations
that the Central Intelligence
Agency was running off
the books.
Now and Shackley was helping
to run that operation.
And the head of Pemex
was a man by the name
of Jorge Diaz Serrano, who
was the former business
partner of George H. W. Bush
in the Zapata Oil Company.
And so this whole connection
was still going on there.
So Shackley-- if
you want to track
the kind of the entire history
from the end of World War
II, the whole rise of
this new major heroin
operation, the cocaine
operations going on,
the political assassination
operations, and what happened
is when Richard Nixon ended up
getting basically impeached,
when the articles of impeachment
were ruled upon by the House
Judiciary Committee,
and he ended up
backing out of the whole
thing and the Vietnam
War was being shut down.
What happened is Shackley
viewed that as a betrayal
because he had
become a dedicated
fascist and the dedicated
fascists use communism
as their antipode, their
dialectical opponent, OK?
And so what he did,
is he helped set up,
at the end of World War II,
he and Gehlen, out of Berlin,
set up a special anti-communist
Special Warfare Training
Academy in Bavaria,
up in Oberammergau.
And they train 1,200 men from
all of the national security
agencies of the Western
powers, including
Israel at that place
from 1947 up to 1965.
They trained 1,200 men
and they filtered them out
into all the national
security bureaucracies of all
the Western powers
and these guys
were more loyal to
each other horizontally
than they were to their
own governments vertically.
And Shackley ran that operation.
So Shackley was in charge of
all these guys around the world.
Mike Harari that
was in the Mossad
in Israel, all of these
people were run by Shackley.
He's the domo.
He is the major domo that ran
the field operations, heroin
smuggling, assassination
operations, covert operations.
He's the one that masterminded
mining the harbors in Nicaragua
that got the Contras declared
to be international war
criminals by the International
Court of Justice.
That's all Shackley.
He's the man.
>>SEAN: Sure, sure,
and obviously,
that dialectic of-- how do you
say-- so-called democracies
versus communism
was a great cover
for the fascists at that time.
And then it's interesting
because you bring it to 9/11
and it's the same infrastructure
of people around the 9/11
event, it seems to me.
Whether it's Bush's son,
Cheney, who was basically
part of the military industrial
congressional complex
since his congressional
days, Rumsfeld,
going back to his relationship
to the corporations
in the Nixon administration, and
then the neo-cons, who really
had people, Elliott
Abrams and Poindexter
and others, who were part of
that enterprise, Iran-Contra
scandal.
They're all part of this
infrastructure of the new Bush
administration.
And what comes to America,
it seems to me, is fascism.
That they basically
institutionalized
this fascist agenda.
So tell me a little bit,
what is this Nazi ideology?
What is this fascist
agenda that they
have been working
so hard to create
and basically they implemented
through the USA Patriot
Act and homeland security
and these new concepts that
are completely foreign to, I
think, a patriotic American?
The old school would
never imagine America
being called the homeland.
>>SHEEHAN: Well, this was
a particular ideology that
was developed by Mussolini
in believing that--
and it worked in Germany.
Is was that the way to have your
economy run most efficiently
and effectively is to have the
instrumentalities of government
combine with the corporations,
these corporations that
are owned by
shareholders, capitalists,
but who are completely
immunized against any liability
for whatever the
corporation does.
And the management is
completely immunized,
the Board of Directors
are completely immunized.
Just the corporation
itself, like an entity,
is liable for whatever
it is they do.
This is an entity that
was created actually
in the United States in
the immediate aftermath
of the Civil War.
From 1868 to 1872, there were a
whole series of court decisions
that were made that actually
were the initial ruling
that corporations were people.
it was an actual set of
rulings that were made.
>>SEAN: And people
are corporations
according to that terminology.
>>SHEEHAN: So the
bottom line is,
that this new institution,
this new business vehicle,
if you will, was a transnational
corporate capitalist
corporation in that from 1868
to 1898, a short 30-year period,
this entire elite that owned
the stock in a major bunch
of these corporations, the oil
corporations, the Rockefellers,
right, Standard
Oil of New Jersey,
Standard Oil of California.
You had J.P. Morgan
Guaranty Trust.
You had Rockefellers
with the Chase Manhattan
Bank and the oil companies.
Irani, DuPont,
all of these guys.
They rose to a
position of the robber
barons of this extraordinarily
elite power group.
And what happened
is, they all became
private investment clients
of Brown Brothers Harriman.
Brown Brothers Harriman was a
private investment corporation.
What they would do is, they
would all come together.
They would sit at
a table together
and they would decide
what kind of investments
they were going to be
making collectively.
And they sat on
each other's Boards.
They had interlocking
directorates
of these corporations,
et cetera.
And they basically
ended up taking
over the entire government.
And so by the time of McKinley
coming to power in 1896,
that they basically
were in complete charge.
Mark Hanna, who was his
Karl Rove-- he was the Karl
Rove, basically, to McKinley--
and he was the basic guy
running this whole operation.
What they did is they ended
up getting the United States
military to go into
places like Nicaragua
to overthrow the
democratic regime.
They took over the
Hawaiian islands.
They took over Guam.
They took over all of this.
And the Secretary
of State at that
time, in 1893, actually,
was John W. Foster,
who was the grandfather
of Allen Dulles.
John Foster Dulles
and Allen Dulles,
he was their grandfather.
His son-in-law, Robert Lansing,
became the Secretary of State
for Woodrow Wilson, who
drafted the Versailles Treaty
negotiation.
All of those people are
all one cabal of people.
And Allen Dulles became
the center point of this
because Allen Dulles was a young
lawyer in the firm of Sullivan
and Cromwell, was legal counsel
to Brown Brothers Harriman.
His uncle, Robert Lansing,
brought him with him
to Versailles and had Allen
Dulles and John Foster Dulles
draft up and insert into
the Treaty of Versailles
the reparations
requirements for Germany.
And then appointed Dulles to
be the lawyer for Germany.
And he negotiated
the contracts whereby
the reparations that had
to be repaid by Germany
were done by getting loans from
the clients of Brown Brothers
Harriman.
Loan the money to Germany.
And he was their lawyer.
So that's what rebuilt--
>>SEAN: And then they backed
Hitler's rise and made sure
that basically his
militarization was all part
of their scheme--
>>SHEEHAN: To be the bulwark
against Bolshevism in Europe.
>>SEAN: But given that
these people are now dead,
who are their disciples?
Who can we look at as the
heart of the modern fascist
international?
Shackley, the Blond
Ghost, has passed on
and George H. W.
Bush is nearly dead,
but how can we recognize this?
>>SHEEHAN: Well,
obviously, Cheney.
Cheney is a classic
manifestation
of the fascist with
Halliburton and that wedding
of the interest of the corporate
interests of Halliburton
with the invasion
of the oil fields.
And there's also a group
called the Carlyle Group.
The Carlyle Group that
James Baker and the Bushes
all put together.
>>SEAN: Frank Carlucci.
>>SHEEHAN: Frank
Carlucci are all in that.
They were the ones
that we're trying
to get the pipeline built
from the Caspian Sea
down through
Afghanistan and were
conducting the negotiations
with the Taliban.
When the Taliban
refused to allow
them to move that oil
from the Caspian Sea
down to the Indian Ocean,
to the warm water port,
that's when, in
fact, W. Bush decided
they were going to invade
them and overthrow him.
>>SEAN: Well, were
told in advance
that they'd be
bombed by that fall.
But that's interesting because
the drug traffic is huge now.
The heroin traffic out of
Afghanistan is massive.
And so you have to assume
that the overall Dope,
Inc., that international drug
apparatus of CIA-linked banks
and personnel must be involved.
They are.
In this explosion of heroin.
>>SHEEHAN: The
Pakistani Bank, the bank
of international--
BCCI, that whole bank
was set up in Pakistan.
>>SEAN: In the '80s.
>>SHEEHAN: The '80s,
that whole operation.
This thing is running
consistently like this.
And the guy who's sort of the
progeny of Theodore Shackley
is a guy by the
name of Cofer Black.
Cofer Black was his deputy.
He was in the CIA.
He was in the operations
directorate under Shackley.
He's the guy that,
when 9/11 occurred,
he's the guy that
said, we're going
to track down whoever
did this, pretending
that it was the people
that they pretended did it.
He's the guy that
said to W. Bush,
he said, don't worry, boss.
There'll be flies on
their eyes by nightfall.
right?
That's the kind of
guy this guy is.
And he is retired
in private practice
now he runs a thing called
Total Intelligence Solutions
and it's part of Blackwater.
>>SEAN: Right and that would
seem to be part of the fascist
internationals,
was the idea of--
>>SHEEHAN: Brown shirts.
>>SEAN: Let's have-- exactly,
the black and brown shirts.
So the privatization
of the military.
Let's have the privatization
of prison systems,
potentially police
force in future,
privatize our industries,
privatize our infrastructure.
That's, I think, really the
heart of the fascist ideology.
>>SHEEHAN: It
becomes transparent
then because then what
they do is they privatize
all these government
institutions and agencies
and they set up corporations.
And now these corporations
can be hired privately.
I mean they've got
full battalions.
Blackwater's got
They have F-14 fighter
planes and tanks.
I mean, this is absolutely
astonishing what's happening.
And they've endorsed all of this
under the Bush administration.
>>SEAN: If you were
going to build a case
and start with rectifying
us and getting away
from this fascist
trajectory that's
come about really
hardcore since 9/11,
How would you start to build a
case to basically bring justice
for what occurred on 9/11?
>>SHEEHAN: What we'll
do is reconstruct
the big federal RICO
case, the Racketeering
Influence and Corrupt
Organization Act,
a federal statute
that exists, that we
used against the Enterprise when
we sued them in May of 1986.
We filed a major federal
RICO action against them.
That's what actually
forced Meese
to have to come
forward and plead
to set up a special prosecutor.
Because they wanted to
take that away from us,
that investigation away
from us, to shut that down.
So that they could, in fact,
control that investigation.
And they actually
ended up appointing
as the special prosecutor,
Lawrence Walsh, who
was the senior partner
in the law firm
that we kicked the crap out
of in the Karen Silkwood
case for $10 and 1/2 million and
we shut down the construction
of all the private nuclear
plants in the country
because we caught them
smuggling 98% pure bomb grade
plutonium out of that facility
to Israel and to Iran.
>>SEAN: As part of
Israel's so-called
not having nuclear
weapons but they do.
>>SHEEHAN: That's right.
This is where they got them and
that was all under Shackley.
>>SEAN: So the point is, they
put Lawrence Walsh in expecting
that he would--
>>SHEEHAN: He would
be vengeful and try
to attack us and destroy
us because we were
the ones mounting the
major federal racketeering
lawsuit against them.
So they appointed Walsh
to be the special attorney
and the irony of it is,
he knew we were right.
He knew we were
right in Silkwood
because we just smothered those
guys with what we had found out
and done.
And so he, in fact, I was
the very first interview
they ever had when he was
put in as special prosecutor.
I just laid the whole thing out.
I had been talking
to Danny Coulson
through the FBI with
William Webster,
at the specific
recommendation of Ross Perot.
And that's how Ross Perot
ran against Bush in 1992.
He was furious with Bush
because Bush was lying to him.
We were giving all this
information to Ross Perot.
He was on President Reagan's
National Security Advisory
committee and we were feeding
him all this information
and he was furious about this.
He confronted George Bush and
Bush lied right to his face.
And so he ran against
him to stop him
from having a second term.
>>SEAN: And Walsh's
investigation ultimately led
to indictments of six
officials, who Bush pardoned.
But the point was that it was
important in making the point
that yes, there was corruption.
And it was trying to, at least,
bring the truth to light.
If it didn't get the whole
picture, it got something out.
So you think the same thing
could be done with 9/11?
>>SHEEHAN: Oh, yes.
I think that
this is a racketeering
enterprise,
just like we put-- we actually
published the major affidavit
that we put together laying out
the information against them.
It was called The Shadow
Government, right?
OK and it lays out, with
150-some footnotes, the details
of the historical development
of this racketeering enterprise.
And what we pointed out
is that the activities
of the Enterprise that
came to public knowledge
under the Reagan/Bush
administration
was just the most recent
venture of these people.
They'd been engaged in drug
smuggling and massive weapons
transports, assassinations,
all the kinds of things that
are the classic, predicate acts
of the federal racketeering
organization.
And so we laid it out.
And so that's the way to get
this thing, is you construct
a major RICO case
and you say, this
is the same enterprise
that surfaced back then.
And the last point
that Lawrence Walsh
made when they shut him
down, after his indictment
of these people and all the
pardons were given, he said,
if you don't stop
these people, he said,
you're going to
come to regret this.
And they're going
to come back again
to haunt you sooner than later.
And this time it won't be under
the rubric of anti-communism,
it will be under the
rubric of anti-terrorism.
>>SEAN: Right, and here we go.
>>SHEEHAN: That's what he said.
And here we go.
>>SEAN: So are you
ready to do that,
to pursue a case like that?
Or what would it take?
>>SHEEHAN: I've been asked to.
The major architects
and engineers for 9/11
Truth, I delivered the
keynote to them at Ground Zero
this last year.
It's the first time I've agreed
to do this because people have
approached me in the
past and said, look it,
you got the kind of
operation that knows
how to do these kind of things.
Would you be willing to do this?
And I said, look, you've got
to be serious about this.
You've got to have an
adequate set of funding.
There are people around
that would be willing
if the proper approach
is made to fund this
but you've got to have a war
chest of probably $10 million
to put together because you've
got to hire investigators.
You've got to put
them in the field.
They've got to rent cars.
They've got to go to hotels.
You know, they've got to do
this major investigation.
The Karen Silkwood case
cost us $6 million.
We won $10 and 1/2
million in the judgment.
The Iran-Contra case cost
us eight million dollars,
you know?
And we would have taken
them to the cleaners
if Judge James Lawrence King,
who was the Chief Federal
Judge in Miami, hadn't
been a member of the Board
of Directors of Meyer Lansky's
National Bank of Miami,
and was appointed by Richard
Nixon at the recommendation
of Bebe Rebozo.
That was his friend,
another bag man.
So we ran right
into that buzzsaw
coming into the Iran-Contra
case and so did Lawrence Walsh,
you know?
>>SEAN: I hope we can
get a real investigation
into the truth on 9/11.
So I wish you luck
and I appreciate
you coming on and
speaking with us today
and we'll have to hopefully,
in the future, find out more
as history reveals itself.
>>SHEEHAN: Yes, absolutely.
Thank you, Sean.
>>SEAN: Thank you, Danny.
There you have it,
folks, some great history
from Daniel Sheehan.
You may not agree with or
believe everything said here
today but I urge
you to check out
his website,
danielpsheehan.com as well
as his book, "The People's
Advocate" for more details.
Remember, the road to
truth is a perilous path
along the buzzsaw's edge.
I'm your host, Sean Stone
and you are the revolution.